# Allocation-problem-in-under-reported-count-data

Statistical analyses involving count data may take several forms depending on the context of use, for example, simple counts, such as the number of occurrences of thunderstorms in a calendar year, number of arrivals in ay service facility like ATM, bank, etc., number of suicides reported in a large population and categorical data in which the counts represent the numbers of items falling into each of several categories. The mostly adapted model for analysing count data is the Poisson Model.  
Any counting system is prone to recording errors including under-reporting and over-reporting. Ignoring the misreporting pattern in count data can give rise to bias in the estimation of model parameters. The work here provides methods for correcting this bias. My work primarily deals with under-reported count data. Under-reporting occurs in survey data when there is a reason for participants to give a false negative response to a question, often due to a perceived social stigma, for example, maternal smoking in epidemiological studies. Any reporting or counting system is prone to such errors in recording. The reasons may be quite different in various fields of application like public health, criminology, actuarial science or production.
For the purpose of the study, the true count is assumed to follow Poisson distribution with mean λ. However, modelling underreported count data using a Poisson model poses some difficulties, particularly in estimation of the model parameter λ. When the data has not been contaminated by any reporting errors, estimate of the model parameter λ is the sample mean but in the presence of reporting errors, the sample mean is a biased estimate of λ. 
Thus, we propose extension of the standard Poisson model so that under-reporting patterns can be captured. Also, a key assumption that is made for the under-reporting model is that the reporting probability is constant and identical for all circumstances. However, in practise the reporting probability might change under different circumstances.
So, to summarize, the objective of this dissertation is three-fold:

a)	Correct estimation of the true model parameter λ, based on a sample of size n where the error-prone data is observed and a subsample of size r where the true count is observed. 

b)	Optimum allocation of sample size n and internal validation sample r, optimization in terms of increasing the precision of the corrected estimator while keeping the cost of survey at a fixed level.

c)	Investigating the problem of allocation of resources between validation and non-validation units.
